Take your First Step towards success!
Choosing the right University is an important decision for any student, for the professional success one aspires for in their lives, depends on this very decision. Graphic Era offers its prospective students, more than 85 UG, PG and Doctoral Programmes to choose from, spread across various domains such as Engineering, Computer Application, Management, Commerce, Life Sciences, Food Technology, Hospitality, Paramedical, Humanities and Social Sciences and more.
The application process at Graphic Era is strictly based on the Merit of the qualifying examination with the entire Admission Process available for completion online. *NOTE: Graphic Era doesn’t outsource any of its admission activities. Please beware of imposters posing to represent Graphic Era. For any and all clarifications, please write to us at enquiry@gehu.ac.in or call us on our Toll Free: 1800 890 6027
Get Started!
Choose the course of your choice
Top Placements
Consistently High Placements at Top MNCs like Amazon, Adobe, Microsoft and Google
Merit Based Scholarships
Merit Based Scholarships in all courses for the entire duration of the course
Additional Scholarships
10% Additional Scholarship for Female Candidates and 5% Fee Concession for Wards of Defence Personnel
Accreditations and Rankings
Graphic Era enjoys Top-Tier Rankings and Accreditations, some of which are exclusive (in the region)
The Application Process:
Choose your Course of Interest
This is the most important step of your application process, since there are more than 85 Programs to choose from at UG, PG and PhD Level. Considering your core skills, aptitude and interest are key factors before arriving at the right choice.
Start your Online Application
Although this step can be performed while you visit our campus or one of our Pan India admission centres, we advise that you start your application online. This ensures timely updates and a hassle free paperless admission process.
Application can be started by clicking here
Fill your form and upload documents
The Online application process allows you to fill up forms on multiple levels and submitting your qualifying documents
Review your application and Submit
Carefully review your application and your credentials and then submit the application form
Complete Application Fee Payment
Once your form is successfully submitted, complete the application fee payment (₹ 1500 for all courses)
Finalize Admission by Paying the Course Fee
The final course fee can be paid once Step 5 is completed by choosing the appropriate payment mode. The final/provisional allotment letter will be provided digitally along with other course commencement information.
Get Started!
Choose the course of your choice
Downloads
Hostel Fee  Session 2024-25
GEHU Brochure 2026-27