The School of Agriculture at Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun is an excellent resource for those interested in agriculture, food, and natural resources. It prepares one for a successful career in Agribusiness and Sustainable Agriculture.
The school offers various undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs. B.Sc. (Hons.) in Agriculture, MSc in Horticulture (Vegetable Sciences), M.Sc. in Agronomy, and M.Sc. in Genetics And Plant Breeding are some of the programs that the school offers. In addition to academic programs, the School also conducts research on topics such as crop production, livestock management, soil science, and environmental sustainability.
The School hosts various activities that include conducting workshops and conferences to promote sustainable agriculture and natural resource management. It boasts an exceptional faculty that is a source of pride for the institution. The faculty’s collective knowledge and expertise span various subjects. This diversity of expertise allows the School to offer a comprehensive education to its students, preparing them to tackle the present challenges. They are dedicated to sharing their knowledge with students through engaging lectures, practical demonstrations, and innovative research projects. The staff brings a wealth of experience to the classroom, widening the proficiency of students.
The infrastructure is a testament to the institution’s commitment to providing students with an exceptional learning experience. The School is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities that enable learning, research, and innovation in the field of agriculture. The  has three farm sites with a specific area provided to the respective domain for practical training of students regarding various agricultural operations such as land preparation, plant protection measures, sowing methods, cultivation, harvesting, etc. These are:
Banjarawala farm: It is a 22.5-hectare large farm area with designated Practical Crop Production and student trial sites.
Demonstration cum training farm: A 2.75 ha area specially designed for demonstration of an integrated farming system with hi-tech hydroponic-based poly houses, naturally ventilated poly houses, shade net houses, mushroom farming, floriculture, fish farming, etc.
Ganeshpur farm: A large-scale vegetable, crop, and fodder cultivation farm which is 28 hectares large and comprises of livestock system (250 cows, goats, poultry, etc), orchard, and plantation areas, etc.
Moreover, the School’s dairy unit ‘Kamdhenu Dairy’ with the capacity to cater to 200 cows is available to conduct practical and hands-on training. The milk (800-1000 litres) in dairy is supplied to hostels and utilised to make dairy products (paneer, curd, buttermilk etc.). The University also has an instructional bee-keeping unit for student training and practicals.  Apart from honey production, the bees also play a vital role in the pollination of numerous fruits and vegetables, thus, contributing to the enhancement of yield.
Moreover, the university plans to establish a 100-acre Agriculture campus to conduct groundbreaking research, enabling them to develop innovative and sustainable agricultural practices. This exposure will offer students the opportunity to apply their theoretical knowledge to real-world scenarios, preparing them to become leaders in the field of agriculture.
The School of Agriculture takes pride in its successful alumni who have made a significant impact in the field of agriculture. Graduates have careers in various areas of agriculture, including research, entrepreneurship, and policymaking. Many of them have also contributed to the development of sustainable and eco-friendly practices in agriculture, promoting responsible and ethical farming practices. Their dedication and hard work have earned them recognition and accolades from the industry.
As the world population continues to grow, the demand for food will increase, and sustainable agriculture practices will be more critical than ever before. The land for research, experimentation, and practical training, coupled with its outreach initiatives to the community, demonstrates the School’s unwavering dedication to advancing the agriculture industry and supporting its future leaders. The School of Agriculture at Graphic Era Hill University is at the forefront of developing these practices, making it an essential program for students who want to make a meaningful contribution to society.
Mandate
The mandate of this programme is to create human resource capacity of well-trained professionals in agriculture with required knowledge in applied and agriculture sciences, and practical skills for sustainable agricultural production systems needed to meet the food security and safety needs of growing global population in the 21 st century.
Specific Objectives of the Programme
To develop competent human resource in agriculture by providing quality education in agricultural and allied sciences.
To equip the students with relevant practical skills through effective curricula delivery to meet the needs of the stakeholders in academia and industry.
To develop abilities to practice and propagate various farming systems, crop diversification and sustainable agriculture practices
To impart training to develop abilities for transfer of technologies for the benefit of farming communities.
School Information
School of Agriculture Graphic Era Hill University Bell Road, Clement Town Dehradun, Uttarakhand
18008906027
Mon – Sat 8:00A.M. – 6:00P.M.
Social Info
Scope
Scope of Agriculture
Agriculture education provides individuals with the necessary knowledge and skills to develop and manage successful agribusiness.  It helps to aspire agripreneurs to understand the fundamental principles of agriculture production, marketing, and management, as well as the latest technological advances in the field.
Some common types of agricultural careers include:
Administrative jobs, Engineering jobs, Labour jobs, Sales jobs, and Science jobs.
A graduate of agricultural science can be appointed in state agriculture departments as:
Research officer
Quality assurance officer
Agriculture officer
Agriculture loan officer (in banks)
Production manager
Operations manager
Farm manager
In the private sector agriculture science graduates may find jobs in the:
Fertilizer manufacturing firms
Agriculture machinery industries,
Agricultural products marketing firms
Food processing units
*After pursuing higher degree programs such as MSc (Agriculture) and Ph.D.(Agriculture) one can easily look forward to following high-salary jobs:
Agronomist (An agronomist studies the best practices that can improve the production of food items and consumables)
Lecturer (Lecturers are individuals who plan and deliver lessons in universities)
Environmental Engineer (Environmental engineers use science and engineering principles to design and apply solutions to problems that occur on agricultural sites)
Entrepreneur (Entrepreneurs create, own, and manage businesses and perform a variety of functions to keep them profitable)
Agricultural Equipment Technician (Agricultural equipment technicians are responsible for assembling, dismantling, repairing, and maintaining farm machinery and vehicles)
Horticulturist (Horticulturists use scientific knowledge to grow fruits, vegetables, and ornamental crops)
Agronomy sales manager (Agronomy sales managers are experts who provide support and information about various products like seeds, manure, and fertilizers to farmers and business owners)
Agricultural Specialist (Agricultural specialists are professionals who advise and assist farmers and agricultural companies)
Research Scientist (Research scientists who specialize in agriculture often work as food scientists, who research and develop processes for manufacturing, storing, and packaging food)
Furthermore, agriculture education provides individuals with practical training and hands-on experience through internships, apprenticeships, and fieldwork.  This helps them to develop the necessary technical and management skills to run successful agribusiness.
Agriculture Education also plays a critical role in promoting sustainable agricultural practices and environmental stewardship. Agripreneurs who are trained in sustainable agriculture are better equipped to manage resources, conserve biodiversity, and reduce their environmental footprint while still maintaining profitability.
Domain: Agronomy Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Agrometeorology, Crop Production, Weed Science, Crop Physiology
Domain: Agricultural Economics Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Basic Economics, Mathematics, Statistics and Computers
Domain: Agriculture Extension Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Agri-Extension, Communication, Rural Sociology, Journalism
Domain: Entomology Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Insect Anatomy and Physiology, Insect Ecology, Economics Entomology
Domain: Genetics and Plant Breeding Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Genetics, Plant Breeding, Seed Science and Technology, Plant Biotechnology
Domain: Horticulture Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Fruit Science, Vegetable Science, Floriculture and Landscaping, Spices and Plantation Crops, Food Science & Technology
Domain: Soil Science and Agriculture Chemistry Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Paedology, Soil fertility, Soil Chemistry, Soil Conservation
Domain: Plant Pathology Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Fungal Pathology, Plant Biotechnology, Virology
Domain: Animal Sciences Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Animal Physiology, Livestock Diseases, Dairy Production Technology
Domain: Agriculture Engineering Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Farm Machinery and Power Engineering
Domain: Basic Sciences Sub-disciplines/sections under the domain: Biochemistry, Microbiology, Environment Science, Biology
Admissions Open 2026
The application process at Graphic Era is strictly based on the Merit of the qualifying examination with the entire Admission Process available for completion online
Programs Offered
Important Links
Faculty
Facilities
Highlights
Brochure