Placements are at the core of University Education, especially in a rapidly growing country like India. Graphic Era , since its inception has been hailed all over for the consistently high placement record that its students have delivered.
Top Placements are a result of synchronized performing of a lot many aspects of the higher education ecosystem, such as student performance and skillsets, the academic rigor instilled in the course structure and content delivery, specific placement preparation for specialised roles and a specialized and professional Placement Team bridging the opportunities with the right candidates. Graphic Era’s Placement Ecosystem excels in all of these aspects and this is the recipe for our success. The Academic Rigor and the student performance and skillsets, go hand in hand and this is found in the very basic structure of the University.
The Placement Preparation part is very well taken care of by highly trained and skilled Trainers for Placement who handle students’ placement specific skillsets from Day 1 of their program and get them into the right frame of mind to compete with the best of the best, year on year at an International Level. The Placement Committee at Graphic Era leaves no stones unturned to map the best opportunities to the right candidates, resulting in the Consistently High Placements of our students across Top MNCs of the World at both Domestic and International Locations
Graphic Era has been delivering the Highest Number of Tier-1 Placements in the region, Year on Year, for the past many years with the maximum number of selection in Global Giants like Amazon, Adobe, Microsoft and Google.
Placements 2025
Graphic Era has consistently set benchmarks in the region for Placements across Top MNCs globally, and the Year 2025 has been no different. Our students have aced the toughest of the selection processes and joined their dream companies at some of the highest packages in the country. The secret behind the stupendous success that Graphians have achieved over the years, lie in the ecosystem that the students are provided during their stay at the University. The hard work of the students and specialised Placement Training and Placement Preparation from Day 1.
Creating Job Creators
Entrepreneurship and TBI
Graphic Era hosts one of the oldest Entrepreneurial Incubators in the region which is also sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.Our students consistently roll out Start-Ups by incubating their ventures on the campus at TBI, where they are provided office space and a wide network of investors which invest in their Ideas, leading to the formation of Futuristic Companies.
Mr. Rajat Jain (Alumni, Graphic Era University)
Hon’ble Prime Minster of India, Shri Narendra Modi, in a virtual interaction, appreciated and praised, Mr. Rajat Jain (Alumni, Graphic Era University) for the fantastic innovation of the World’s Smallest ECG Machine at his Start-Up, Sunfox Technologies. Rajat carried on his journey after incubating his venture at TBI and has now reached a massive valuation spanning Tens of Crores, and was recently featured on the popular show, Shark Tanks India.Many such ventures have gone through the TBI Route and are making it big!
When you choose Graphic Era, you don’t just choose the possibility of earning a hefty package at a TOP MNC, but you’ll have a very realistic chance to create your own venture.
A glimpse of what the Corporate Giants have to say about us
We are thankful to entire management of Graphic Era for helping us to conduct our Campus Drive. It was being chosen primarily because of the performances of Alumni working with us, availability of the quality candidates and infrastructure to support our drive Ms. Shaan Vats Senior Lead: Talent Acquisition, Infosys
We are thankful to entire management of Graphic Era for helping us to conduct our Campus Drive. It was being chosen primarily because of the performances of Alumni working with us, availability of the quality candidates and infrastructure to support our drive
It was pleasure meeting you all and we appreciate the hospitality we had from your side. The University has good mix up of students having knowledge in different areas ranging from extracurricular activities, aptitude level exams, concepts and studies. Overall we found the students good in their studies and academically prepared for their development. Look forward for a mutually rewarding and long lasting association with the esteemed university. Mohd Arif HR- Talent Acquisition, OPPO Mobiles, India
It was pleasure meeting you all and we appreciate the hospitality we had from your side. The University has good mix up of students having knowledge in different areas ranging from extracurricular activities, aptitude level exams, concepts and studies. Overall we found the students good in their studies and academically prepared for their development. Look forward for a mutually rewarding and long lasting association with the esteemed university.
Thanks to all of you. Had a wonderful experience here since moming. Kind of research you are driving is really amazing. Seeing the progress of this University, I can say that if I were a student and had the choice, I would pick up Computer Science at Graphic Era rather than Aerospace in IIT Really amazing Professors here! Very passionate, Very committed and very dedicated to bring the students to a level which at par with the Intemational level. I can say Your faculty is well up to industry standards. Mr. Rajiv Arora Director-DPE Microsoft-India
Thanks to all of you. Had a wonderful experience here since moming. Kind of research you are driving is really amazing. Seeing the progress of this University, I can say that if I were a student and had the choice, I would pick up Computer Science at Graphic Era rather than Aerospace in IIT Really amazing Professors here! Very passionate, Very committed and very dedicated to bring the students to a level which at par with the Intemational level. I can say Your faculty is well up to industry standards.
The total number of career streams and the options we have in this university, it’s probably one of the differentiators from other educational institutions. There is a commitment in this university to bring in infrastructure and to put in investments to grow research GEU is a great university. The Management here is very professional, very committed, extremely humble and down to earth. Mr. Rajiv Sachdeva Vice-President-Technical IBM
The total number of career streams and the options we have in this university, it’s probably one of the differentiators from other educational institutions. There is a commitment in this university to bring in infrastructure and to put in investments to grow research GEU is a great university. The Management here is very professional, very committed, extremely humble and down to earth.
Corporate Resource Cell Team
Contact our placement team for assistance
Dr. Hemani Semwal
Phone: +91-9850068380 Email: hemani.semwal@geu.ac.in
Dr. Rajesh Pokhriyal
Phone: +91-7500674307 Email: rajesh@geu.ac.in
Dr. Sandeep Tomar
Phone: +91-7062525507 Email: sandeeptomar@geu.ac.in
Mr. Bhaskar Joshi
Phone: +91-9389031595 Email: bhaskarjoshi@gehu.ac.in
Mr. Divyanshu Shahi
Phone: +91-9599782053 Email: divyanshushahi@gehu.ac.in
Mr. Faraz Masood
Phone: +91 9899077408 Email: farazmasood@geu.ac.in