At the forefront of Quality Higher Education and Academic Excellence
Graphic Era Hill University
Founded in 2011, Graphic Era Hill University is a private university located in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, India , with the goal of providing world class-education with a clear focus on cutting-edge technologies, professional development of students, critical thinking and quality research. The University has achieved numerous milestones in its glorious past on the basis of its academic rigor, consistently Top Performing Students and Alumni and an immensely strong and qualified teaching fraternity.
Graphic Era Hill University is based in the magnificent and serene city of Dehradun, nestled in the valley surrounded by Rajaji National Park on one end and Clement Town Cantonment on the other. The University prides itself in its University regime that warrants the holistic development of all the students part of the Graphic Era Fraternity.
Get Started!
Choose the course of your choice
33 Years Of Academic Excellence
Prof. (Dr.) Kamal Ghanshala
The Founder-President of the prestigious Graphic Era Group of Institutions is a renowned academician and edupreneur. Prof. Ghanshala still continues to take classes of every student of Computer Science that passesout of Graphic Era Group of Institutions, ensuring a high level of competence in the core subjects of Data Structures and Algorithms. His contribution in the field of research can be felt globally in USA, Canada, London, Paris, Germany, Denmark, Johannesburg, Turkey, Croatia and Thailand. Amongst many laurels, he has been conferred the ‘Uttarakhand Ratna, 2007’ for outstanding contribution to quality Technical and Higher education and the ‘Visionary Edupreneur of India Award, 2017’ by Hon’ble Former President of India, Mr. Pranab Mukherjee.
Read More
Our Distinguished Faculty
Our teachers are the source of our Academic Excellence and we at Graphic Era ensure the delivery of higher education of the highest order from some of the best faculty in the world. Graphic Era boasts of a large number of faculty who are educated from the Premier Institutions of India and abroad, including IITs, NITs, IISc Bangalore, IIMs and more
President Prof. (Dr.) Kamal Ghanshala
Director Col. Anil Kumar Nair (Retd.)
Go Global with Graphic Era!
Tie-Ups with the TOP UNIVERSITIES of the World, open up doors of global opportunities for the students of Graphic Era. The University offers various programs in collaboration with the some of the best Universities Internationally, allowing students to earn valuable international exposure, earn credits abroad through semester exchange and internships and even earn degrees abroad.
Various Programs Offered: 3+1+1,3+1, 2+2, 1+1 and many more
Placements
Never a dull moment in the University
Notices & Updates
Notice Regarding Reconstitution of Student Grievance Redressal Committee for GEHU Dehradun Campus
Schedule for Term Evaluation Theory Regular/Back Examination, September 2026
Notice Regarding to the Extension of Term Evaluation Theory (Odd) Examination, September 2026
Notice Regarding the Odd Mid-Semester Examination of 1st Semester Students of Batch 2026-27 Admitted on or After 7th September 2026
Quick Links
Student Area
ERP
Digital Library
Alumni Connect
Exam Portal
Fee Payment
Events
Grafest 2026
Expert Talk on Fashion Economics: A Glimpse into Industry Realities by Mr. Rajesh Jain
Expert Talk on Mutual Funds and the Global Economy: Insights from HDFC AMC Ltd.
From Campus to Corporate: GEHU Alumnus Inspires with Real-World Insights
AutoCom-25: A Convergence of Innovation, Research, and Technological Excellence
Bridging Theory and Practice: Law Students Visit Labour Court for Experiential Learning
Graphic Era’s beautiful, green and serene campus is located in the scenic city of Dehradun. Centrally located, the campus is a 5 minute drive from ISBT, Dehradun, 20 minute drive from the Railway Station and 1 Hour away from the Dehradun Airport.
The campus is bordered by Rajaji National Park one one side and by the Clementown Cantonment on the other. The campus houses Hostels as well as different facilities for students ranging from a Radio Station to Sports Facilities
Get a detailed tour of our campus through our 360 Degree Tour
360° Campus Tour
Take a tour of our campus and capture a glimpse of the magic that beholds