If you are passionate about engineering and want to be a part of a dynamic and innovative community, we invite you to join us at Graphic Era Hill University – Department of Civil Engineering.
The Department of Civil Engineering at Graphic Era Hill University has a rich legacy of years in providing excellent education and research opportunities to our students. The department has played an important part in shaping the careers of many distinguished alumni, who are now recognized as successful civil engineers, architects, researchers, and leaders in various national and international organisations.
The department comprises highly qualified faculty members and industry experts who have been educated from prestigious universities worldwide. The faculty members are part of various world-class research fields, such as structural engineering, transportation engineering, water resources, geotechnical engineering, and more. They have been ushered with numerous national and international awards and serve on the editorial boards/reviewers of many prestigious journals in the field.
The civil department at Graphic Era Hill University offers undergraduate and postgraduate programs in Civil Engineering, designed to provide students with a practical understanding of the field.  Students are also offered a wide range of electives, providing them with opportunities to specialise in their areas of interest. The program comprises coursework in Construction Technology, Environmental Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Concrete technology, Structural Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Water Resources, Surveying and GIS all of which include laboratory experience, workshops and site visits.
The courses are especially designed to be as practical oriented as possible. The department encourages its students to participate in various activities, competitions, conferences, and workshops, and engage in research projects. The department has also collaborated with reputed organisations in this field and uses these connections to organise site visits to provide the students with best possible training.
Graphic Era Hill University provides students with world class facilities. The labs are equipped with specialised software, such as ANSYS, STAAD Pro, and ETABS, which are widely used in the field of structural engineering. The library is well equipped with various books, journals, and research papers, for students to access.
The department is honoured by the achievements of its alumni who have made noteworthy contributions to both the industry and society. The department believes that its alumni network is a valuable asset that its present students can leverage to gain insights and benefit from their experience. To that end, alumni talks are regularly organised. Accomplished alumni give the students a glimpse into the industry and provide them with guidance and numerous career opportunities.
The department places great importance on cultivating a culture of creativity and enterprise. It inspires the students to nurture their own concepts and initiate their entrepreneurial pursuits. If you possess a strong zeal for Civil Engineering and aspire to be a part of an inventive and progressive community, the department extends a cordial invitation to you to become a member of the Department of Civil Engineering at the Graphic Era Hill University.
Department Info
Department of Civil Engineering Graphic Era Hill University Bell Road, Clement Town Dehradun, Uttarakhand
18008906027
Mon – Sat 8:00A.M. – 6:00P.M.
Social Info
Enquire Now
Admissions Open 2026
The application process at Graphic Era is strictly based on the Merit of the qualifying examination with the entire Admission Process available for completion online
Programs Offered
Important Links
Distinguished Faculty
Facilities
Highlights