--- Page 1 ---
Scholarship Policy 
 
 
Graphic Era Hill University has been at the forefront of efforts at a national level to ensure 
accessibility of high-quality higher education for all meritorious candidates. The University 
introduces handsome scholarships Year on Year, which often have proven to be the trend setters for 
private Universities in India. This document provides clarity on the Types of Scholarships and 
Waivers that students have the possibility of availing depending on their candidatures. 
 
 
ACADEMIC SCHOLARSHIP 
 
• 
The Fee Structure at Graphic Era Hill University, clearly mentions the Academic Scholarships 
provided in all courses defined in various categories based on the merit of the candidate 
obtained in the qualifying examination considered for admission into that specific course. 
• 
The Academic Scholarships provided in the Fee Structure has been defined for the entire 
course duration. The Scholarship bracket availed by the candidate at the time of the 
admission is frozen for the entire duration of the course. There is no change in the 
scholarship amount during the course, however the candidate will have to score a minimum 
aggregate of 7 SGPA, in order for the scholarship to applied in each semester. For candidates 
who fail to score 7 SGPA or above in any of the semesters, the scholarship will not be 
applicable for that particular semester. If the candidate is able to score 7 SGPA or above in 
the subsequent semester(s), the scholarship will be reinstated. In addition to the 
aforementioned 7 SGPA clause, the same terms are applicable on the student obtaining a 
backlog (failing to pass a subject) in a semester. If the student scores 7 SGPA or above but 
has still scored a backlog in a subject, the scholarship for that semester will be discontinued. 
• 
The fee structure clearly mentions the amount of the Academic Scholarship available to 
candidates or the entire course duration. This amount remains fixed for the entire course 
duration. 
• 
There are a number of other scholarships/concessions that the candidates might be eligible 
for – please do not confuse this with the Academic Scholarship – the amounts for this are 
mentioned clearly under the head “Academic Scholarship” in the Fee Structures 
corresponding to all courses.

--- Page 2 ---
FEE CONCESSION FOR FEMALE CANDIDATES (10% On Net Tuition Fee) 
 
 
An integral part of our Scholarship structure is the vision to empower females in various disciplines 
across the country, and as a part of this effort, Graphic Era has been running a special scholarship 
scheme for all Female Candidates in the University. 
 
 
An additional 10% Scholarship is provided to all female candidates (across all courses) on the Net 
Tuition Fee. This Scholarship is termed additional, as it will be applicable to candidates regardless 
of whether they are availing Academic Scholarship or not. 
 
 
FEE CONCESSION FOR WARDS OF DEFENCE PERSONNEL (5% on NET TUITION FEE) 
 
Graphic Era Hill University has a rich legacy of respecting the service of the Personnel of the brave 
defence forces of India, and as a no questions asked benefit being passed on to the community, the 
University has a blanket Fee Concession of 5% on the Net Tuition Fee for all candidates who are 
wards of Defence Personnel. 
 
This category covers Current and Ex-Servicemen from the Indian Armed Forces (Indian Army, Indian 
Air Force, Indian Navy and all Paramilitary Forces) across all levels. 
 
The candidate will be required to provide proof of employment for their parent(s) in the categories 
mentioned above. 
 
 
Loyalty Concession: 10% (On Net Tuition Fee) 
Graphic Era Hill University values it’s Alumni, and wishes to assist them in attaining Higher Education 
to the extent that they aspire to. In order to ease out the process of attaining degrees higher than 
graduation, the University provides a Loyalty Concession of 10% on the Net Tuition Fee for all 
candidates who have attained a UG Degree from any of the institutions falling under the purview of 
Graphic Era Group of Institutions. 
The difference between Year of Passing out and the Year of enrolling in a PG Course bear no 
importance in this concession. Any and every one falling into the aforementioned criterion will be 
provided this benefit.

--- Page 3 ---
Sibling Concession: (7.5% - Current Student and 5% - Alumni on Net Tuition Fee) 
 
The University, its students and its Alumni are one big family and with this clear understanding, we 
aspire to provide financial assistance to candidates who are immediate siblings of a current student 
of Graphic Era or an Alumni of any of the institutions under Graphic Era Group of Institutions. 
There are two sub-categories of concessions in this category: 
• 
Current Student: Immediate Siblings of a student who is currently a student of Graphic Era 
will be eligible for a Fee Concession of 7.5% on the Net Tuition Fee. 
• 
Alumni: Immediate Siblings of a student who is an Alumni of Graphic Era, will be eligible for a 
Fee Concession of 5% on the Net Tuition Fee. 
• 
IMPORTANT CONDITIONS: 
o The concession is applicable only for immediate siblings and not for cousins or any other 
distant sibling relation.  
o If two candidates (real siblings) are seeking admission at the same time, with no sibling 
already studying at Graphic Era or passed out from Graphic Era, only one of the two 
students will be eligible for the Sibling Concession (7.5%) – which of the two candidates 
wishes to receive the Concession is up to the candidate and their family.  
o If the status of the a current student of Graphic Era, who’s sibling has just taken 
admission at the University, changes from Current Student to Alumni, during the course 
of the younger sibling – the concession will be revised from 7.5% to 5% as soon as the 
elder sibling passes out of the University 
 
 
POLICY FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE SCHOLARSHIPS/CONCESSIONS 
 
Since there are a number of scholarships that a candidate may be eligible for, there is a formal rule 
that defines the maximum number of scholarships a candidate may avail. The rule is defined as 
below, along with a use case that clarifies all scenarios: 
 
Mandatory Scholarship (For Candidates eligible as per the different criterions defined in the 
corresponding section) – 
 
ACADEMIC SCHOLARSHIP: 
 
All other scholarships are additional scholarships that are added on top of the Academic Scholarship. 
As a formal rule, a maximum of 3 Scholarships/Concessions can be availed by a candidate in addition 
to the Academic Scholarship (Academic Scholarship + 3 Additional Scholarships/Concessions). These 
scholarships are applied in descending order, in order to provide the maximum benefit to the 
candidate. 
 
USE CASE FOR CLEAR UNDERSTANDING: 
 
Candidate A is seeking admission at Graphic Era – He is eligible for Academic Scholarship, Female 
Candidate Scholarship, Ward of Defence Personnel, Loyalty Concession and Sibling Concession 
(7.5%). The order of the Scholarship/Concession granted will be as below: 
 
Academic Scholarship → Female Candidate (10%) → Loyalty Concession (10%) → Sibling Concession 
(7.5%)

--- Page 4 ---
So, as per the rule – Academic Scholarship + 3 – the aforementioned discounts were provided – 
Defence Scholarship wasn’t included as it carries a lower value (5%) as compared to the other 
concessions that the candidate was eligible for, and since there are only a maximum of 3 
Scholarships that can be applied on top of the Academic Scholarship, the aforementioned scenario 
was the one that provided the highest concession possible. 
 
 
IMPORTANT NOTE: 
 
An additional 5% Concession on Net Tuition Fee is applicable for candidates who choose to pay their 
Course Fees in Annual Mode i.e. Depositing their Course Fee for an entire year together. This 
concession is only applicable to yearly payment mode and candidates paying their fees in half-yearly 
mode will not be provided any concession. 
 
It is important to note that this concession is applied after all of the above scholarships have been 
calculated – this is not a part of the Mandatory Scholarships + 3 rule. 
 
All scholarships are provided on the condition of the candidates providing valid documents 
concerning the criterion. Failure to provide the same will result in immediate cancellation of the 
scholarship allotted, and in cases of fake documentation provided – the candidate will be liable to 
have his/her admission cancelled, in addition to recovery of dues and legal proceedings that may 
follow. 
 
 
For any queries regarding the Fee Structure/Scholarship/Admissions in any of the courses, please 
reach out to our counsellors at 18008906027 or drop a query at https://gehu.ac.in/