--- Page 1 ---
山
一
il. d)owm s m(
薇
のグ`笏彪″″%
MBBS,‖ SiO品Ю),DSM′ FA:S FASM′
FAFSM′ FttMS FAMS
Secretary
…
蒲
…
W赫
Uniuersity Gronts Commission
l―
赫
臨
輛
,Ⅶく。―
l
lMhittOIHumonResourceDwelopmentOovt.ol hdh)
…
ゞやく¬両,鷲R朦命
・110oo2
Bchodur Shch Zofor‖ org′ New Delhi‐ 110002
Ph.:011‐ 23239337′ 23236288′
Fox:011‐23238858′ emdl:卜50ndhU.ugc@面Cin
D.O. No. r-glzooT (CPP-II)
Dear Sir / Madam,
6th December,2016
UGC has striven to discharge thc mandate of regulating the standards of higher education given
to it by the UGC Act, r.956 though issuance of regulations, guidelines, notifications and other
instruments. uGC (Grievance Redressal) Regulations, 2012 and uGC Guidelines on students'
Entitlement are some of the initiatives that the Commission took to safeguard the interests and
entitlements of students in higher educational institutions. UGC's public notice in zoo7
articulating a procedure for resolving grievances of students related to fee refund and retention
of original certificates was aimed in this direction' However, in view of contexts that have
dramatically changed in the subsequent decade and unremitting flow of complaints and sos
pleas from students and parents on issues covered in public notice, UGC felt it incumbent upon
itself to review its policy on this and other related student-centric matters. A Committee
constituted in this regard has fbrmulated an elaborate notification on "Remittance and
Refirnd of Fees and other student centric Issues" which was approved by the
Commissioninits5rgthmeetingheldonl5thNovember,zot6.Thenotificationisavailableon
UGC website.
Let me apprise you that UGC has taken a serious view of these matters which have been brought
to its notice by students and other stakeholders and will take strict action against universities
and their affiriated/constituent coileges breaching the provisions of this notification. I request
you to give specific and stern instructions to various departments and colleges under your
university for complete compliance of the Notification. The provisions of the Notification may
also be included ir",it e institutional website and prospectus suitably for wider dissemination'
ツ
Py t‰
e PuЫ たa●On OmCett Webdte DM」oL UGQ New Ddh.
l ne ruDilCaL1011｀
」
■■■し0■,VVし
ν O■しし
ν
▲V八υ ^Ψ “ ,ヤ
~~'~ ~
The Bureau Heads,UGC,New Delhi(tO take action on cOmplaints/representations
--/
t*f "
(Dr. Hemang Desai)
Education Officer
2.
.or""..i.rg their universities / colleges / institutes'

--- Page 2 ---
1 | P a g e 
 
 
University Grants Commission  
Notification 
on 
 
 
 
 
 
December, 2016 
Remittance and Refund of Fees and Other Student-centric 
Issues 
1.  Introduction: 
One of the fundamentals of the Indian higher education system, even after the 
significant evolution of private sector in the domain, has remained its 
commitment to provide education without profit. The rationale behind this 
policy paradigm has been to protect the rights and entitlements of students 
whose financial conditions often pose a roadblock to their desire for quality 
higher education. For a country like India, it is but natural to promote “not-for-
profit” paradigm in view of low per capita income and high poverty index. It has 
to be acknowledged that this apparently idealistic principle has worked to an 
appreciable extent in India. However, the considerable number of complaints, 
grievances, court cases and other references received by UGC on various 
coercive and shady dealings carried out by HEIs reflect that profiteering 
motivations still drive the operation of quite a few institutions in India. The 
reason behind the proliferation of such malpractices can be many, including 
absence of an effective and robust policy regime. However, what is most 
disturbing about the dismal scenario is that students are at the receiving end of 
this malaise. The Commission has earlier notified University Grants 
Commission (Grievance Redressal) Regulations, 2012 on redressal of 
multifarious grievances of students. But given the sheer volume of the 
complaints regarding non-refund of fees and retention of original certificates by

--- Page 3 ---
2 | P a g e 
 
HEIs and other related issues, the Commission has felt the need to notify 
elaborate instructions so as to curb such malpractices. Considering the 
seriousness of the issue, the UGC has decided to issue appropriate instructions 
in the form of this notification to all universities and other higher educational 
institutions under the purview of UGC. 
2.  Objective: 
To prohibit coercive and profiteering institutional practices in the matters 
related to verification of certificates and testimonials at the time of admission, 
remittance of fees and refund thereof in case of cancellation of admission and 
other such student-centric issues. 
In exercise of powers conferred by Section 12 (d) read with Section 12(j) of the 
UGC Act, 1956, the UGC issues this notification for adoption of standard 
operating procedures in the matters related to verification of certificates and 
testimonials at the time of admission, remittance of fees and refund thereof in 
case of cancellation of admission and other such student-centric issues with an 
aim to curb coercive and profiteering institutional practices that directly and 
indirectly constrain the fundamental rights of students to explore multiple 
opportunities and choices in terms of their academic career.   
3. Application and Enforcement 
1.1. The instructions contained in this notification shall be in supersession to its 
earlier Public Notice dated 23.04.2007. It shall be applicable to Undergraduate, 
Postgraduate and Research Programs run by all statutory universities 
recognized by UGC under Section 2 (f) of UGC Act, together with all colleges 
under their affiliating domain and institutions declared as deemed to be 
universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act. 
1.2 The instructions contained in this notification shall come into force with 
immediate effect and shall have regulatory force on extant as well as future 
grievances over issues and matters covered herein. 
1.3 Universities shall amend their relevant statutes, rules, regulations etc. and 
bring them in line with the provisions contained herein.

--- Page 4 ---
3 | P a g e 
 
4. Specific Instructions and Mandatory Actions for HEIs: 
The Commission herewith lays down specific instructions and consequent 
mandatory actions on the issues related to (1) verification and non-retention of 
students’ academic and personal certificates and testimonials, (2) remittance of 
fees by students and refund thereof by the institution concerned in the event of 
the cancellation of admission by the student and (3) an effective grievance 
redressal mechanism to be installed by the affiliating university for quick and 
effective resolution of grievances in this regard; 
4.1.1 No institution of higher education shall insist upon a student to submit the 
original academic and personal certificates and testimonials like mark-sheets, 
school leaving certificates and other such documents at the time of submitting 
admission form. 
4.1 Verification and Non-retention of Students’ Academic and Personal 
testimonials  
4.1.2 In line with instructions issued by Ministry of Personnel, Public 
Grievances & Pension, Department of Administrative Reforms, PG & Pension, 
the Commission has already written to HEIs about allowing self-attestation of 
documents such as mark-sheets, birth certificate etc. by the applicant where 
there is a system of verification of the original certificates and testimonials at 
any stage before the finalization of the process of admission. 
4.1.3 HEIs shall physically verify the originals at the time of admission of the 
student in his/her presence and return them immediately after satisfying 
themselves about their authenticity and veracity, keeping the attested copies for 
their record. 
4.1.4 The self-attested testimonials of students shall be held valid and authentic 
by institution concerned and/or the affiliating university for all purposes and 
administrative requirements and should there be a need for physical 
verification at any time during the course of program of study, such verification 
shall be undertaken in the presence of the student and certificates and 
testimonials thus verified shall be returned immediately to the student.

--- Page 5 ---
4 | P a g e 
 
4.1.5 Taking the certificates and testimonials into institutional custody under 
any circumstances or pretexts is strictly prohibited for it is a coercive tactic 
which can be misused for blackmailing students who wish to withdraw 
admission from the institute for better prospects or other compulsions. 
4.1.5 In case of any suspicion over the authenticity or genuineness of the 
testimonials, the reference may be made to the university or the Board which 
issued certificates to the student and the admission be subjected to the 
authentication, but original certificates shall not be retained under any 
circumstances 
4.2.1 No HEI shall make it mandatory for applicants to purchase the 
institutional prospectus any time during the course of the program of study. 
Purchasing prospectus shall be the personal choice of the student and he/she 
has all rights to decide against it in case he/she wishes to access the information 
from institutional website. As laid down in the Right to Information Act, 2005, 
and reiterated in the UGC Guidelines on Students’ Entitlement, all HEIs shall 
disclose on their website and prospectus information like the status of the 
institution, its affiliation, accreditation rating, physical assets and amenities, 
course-wise sanctioned intake of students, details of faculty, membership of 
governing 
bodies 
and 
minutes 
of 
the 
meetings 
of 
bodies 
like 
Academic/Executive council, sources of income and the financial situation and 
any other information about its functioning necessary for a student to make a 
fully informed choice.  
4.2 Remittance and Refund of Fees  
4.2.2 HEIs shall charge fees in advance only for the semester/year in which a 
student is to engage in academic activities. Collecting advance fees for entire 
program of study or for more than one semester/year in which a student is 
enrolled is strictly prohibited as it restricts the student from exercising other 
options of enrolment elsewhere. This enabling provision is in line with the UGC 
guidelines on Choice-Based Credit System (CBCS) and Model Curricula which 
are geared towards promoting a student’s inter-institutional mobility.

--- Page 6 ---
5 | P a g e 
 
4.2.3 If a student chooses to withdraw from the program of study in which 
he/she is enrolled, the institution concerned shall follow the following four-tier 
system for the refund of fees remitted by the student. 
Sr. 
No 
Percentage 
of 
Refund 
of 
Aggregate fees*  
Point of time when notice of 
withdrawal 
of 
admission 
is 
served to HEI 
(1) 
100% 
15 days before the formally-notified 
last date of admission 
(2) 
80% 
Not more than 15 days after the 
formally-notified 
last 
date 
of 
admission 
(3) 
50% 
More than 15 days but less than 30 
days after formally-notified last date 
of admission 
(4) 
00% 
More than 30 days after formally-
notified last date of admission 
*(Inclusive of course fees and non-tuition fees but exclusive of caution money 
and security deposit) 
4.2.4 In case of (1) in the table above, the HEI concerned shall deduct an 
amount not more than 10% of the aggregate fees as processing charges from the 
refundable amount.   
4.2.5 Fees shall be refunded by all HEIs to an eligible student within fifteen 
days from the date of receiving a written application from him/her in this 
regard.  
4.3.1 All universities shall mandatorily constitute a “Grievance Redressal 
Committee” (GRC) mandated by UGC (Grievance Redressal) Regulations 2012 
to address and effectively resolve complaints, representations and grievances 
related to any of the issues mentioned in this notification, among others 
articulated in the regulations. The GRC shall do all it takes to ensure that its 
4.3 Constitution and Functions of Grievance Redressal Committee 
(GRC)

--- Page 7 ---
6 | P a g e 
 
departments and affiliated colleges unfailingly comply with all the instructions 
articulated in this notification. 
4.3.2 The GRC shall follow procedures outlined in UGC (Grievance Redressal) 
Regulations 2012 for resolution of the students’ grievances in above matters. 
5. Punitive Actions by Commission against defaulting HEIs 
5.1 Any act of retention of original certificate or non-refund of fee by any college 
shall be deemed to have been committed by the affiliating university which 
shall only be liable for punitive action by the UGC. 
5.2 On receiving any complaint from students or aggrieved person on any of the 
issues outlined in this notification, the Commission shall forward it to the GRC 
of the university concerned for feedback. 
5.3 The GRC of the university concerned shall furnish to Commission the 
“Action Taken Report” and/or status of the grievance resolution within a period 
of twenty days from the date of receipt of the Commission’s missive. 
5.4 On basis of the feedback of the GRC, if the Commission feels the defaulting 
HEI is wilfully contravening the provisions contained in this Notification, it 
shall take all such punitive actions as notified in Regulation 9 of UGC 
(Grievance Redressal) Regulations 2012 against the defaulting HEIs.  
5.5 Additionally, the Commission shall write to accreditation agencies about the 
misconduct and malpractices of the erring HEI with the request to take all such 
actions as deemed fit by them to ensure compliance. 
 
(Jaspal S. Sandhu) 
         Secretary